This is the source to the 2600 game Poker Squares.

The game was released back in 2005. You can buy a copy, or just download
the ROM image and manual, at the AtariAge store:

https://www.atariage.com/software_page.html?SoftwareLabelID=2724

During development, I posted sources to the old stellalist, but never
did get around to releasing the source to the final version. So here it
finally is.

File list:

pokersquares.dasm - The main source file, 6502 assembly with DASM syntax.

pftitle.inc - Playfield data for the scrolling copyright message.

pokersol.inc - Playfield data for the instructions.

vcs.h - From the old mailing list. defines the standard VCS labels.
        An old version of vcs.h, before all the fancy macros got
        added.

pokersquares.release.bin - The released binary. Can be downloaded
                           from AtariAge. This copy is the one I sent to
                           them in the first place (not that it matters;
                           they're identical).

pokersquares.pal.bin - PAL binary. Untested, never released, sitting on
                       my hard drive for the past 10+ years.

README - You're reading it.

LICENSE - The WTFPL. Applies to all files except vcs.h.

The first 4 files are the original source. I replaced my gnarly old
Makefile with a cleaned-up and simpler one, and added the "make check"
target to verify that the assembled binary matches the one downloaded
from AtariAge.

Building:

The Makefile expects a more-or-less UNIX-like environment. This could be
Linux, *BSD, Mac OSX, or Windows with msys or cygwin tools... or something
else entirely (anyone still use BeOS? How about MinT on an Atari ST?)

If you have GNU make and dasm installed and available on your $PATH, you
should be able to just run 'make' (or maybe 'gmake'). The result is a 4K
binary file called 'pokersquares.bin', which you can run with e.g. stella
or z26, or burn to an EPROM and play on a real 2600. Also an assembly
listing (pokersquares.list) and a symbol table dump (pokersquares.syms)
are generated.

To build the PAL version, 'make pal'. I've no idea if it'll work on
real PAL hardware (never got a chance to test it), but at least Stella
emulates it OK.

If your dasm binary isn't installed on your $PATH, you can use a
command like:

   make DASM=/path/to/your/dasm

If you don't have GNU make (maybe you're on a user-hostile OS that
doesn't ship development tools, or maybe you don't like GNU), but you
do have DASM, you can probably build with:

   dasm pokersquares.dasm -opokersquares.bin -f3 -v1

Notes:

The *.inc files were generated with a perl script, which I seem
to have lost (or maybe just forgotten the name of) in the last 10
years. Basically, I "drew" the playfields in ASCII art with a text editor,
then ran that through the perl script, which turned it into labels and
.byte declarations for DASM's consumption.

After the assembler does its thing, the newly-built binary is checked
against either pokersquares.release.bin or pokersquares.pal.bin using
the *nix 'cmp' command. If it complains that the files differ, the mostly
likely cause is your DASM version.

You might run into assembly errors with versions of DASM newer than
about 2005. I used version 2.20.07 during development, and have just
successfully built with 2.20.09. Note that these old versions of DASM
can't be compiled as 64-bit code (or, they can be compiled, but crash
when you try to run them).

At the time of this writing, DASM development has just started back
up. One of the developers' goals is compatibility with historic versions,
so you might be able to use a very recent version.

License:

The file vcs.h came from the old stella mailing list. It's a collaborative
work, added to by many list members. I don't recall there ever being a
formal license for vcs.h, but it's considered a public domain work to
the best of my knowledge. If I'm wrong on this, please correct me!

Everything else in this directory is my own original work, released
under the WTFPL. License terms can be found in the file LICENSE or at:

http://www.wtfpl.net/txt/copying/

Author:

B. Watson, <yalhcru@gmail.com>. I can also be reached as Urchlay on
FreeNode IRC in the ##atari channel.
